# Pen Testing Deliverables

Hard to "script" because testing environment may be very different than what we planned so we kind of take notes as we go. These notes should be detailed to what we have done with the following considerations:
- pen test can be repeated
- pen test can be repeated after remediation --> shows issue has been fixed
- if system failure during pen test period, can determine that the pen testing was the cause of the failure.
*[_Rules of Engagement_](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/msrc/pentest-rules-of-engagement) (RoE, where some things are not permitted, may have a referee present to enforce) and specific methodology should be made clear from the onset.*

# Note Portability

Can be managed across OS. Should be concise and coherent. Should be able to be understood by different team members and other stakeholder. Can be adapted to technical reporting.

# The General Structure of Pen Test Notes

Need to be structured but may not have a one size fits all. Should follow the following principles:

1. Record **EXACTLY** what we did, so we can replicate
	Every command, line of code modified, and every where we CLICK should be recorded
2. Need to be structured and sufficiently detailed so no ambiguity
3. Should enable us to write a detailed technical report later on --> so we need to provide enough technical and substantiated technical details.
4. Make sure someone ELSE can replicate.

*Example: Should have details of scope, application and timing at the top. Then step-by-step what you did and what resulted.

# Choosing the Right Note-Taking Tools

Needs important features like **screenshots, code blocks, portability and directory structure**. E.g. sublime, cherrytree or obsidian.

# Screenshots

Important to give a visual representation of whatever we are explaining. But needs to be a good screenshot, or might not be beneficial.
- Legible
- Should show client specificity
- Contains material being described
- Properly frames material being described

*Needs shift+prntscreen in Linux and Windows+shift+s for Windows.* Can consider [_Flameshot_](https://github.com/flameshot-org/flameshot) which is platform agnostic and has cli and gui features.


 
