# Purpose of Technical Report

We want to provide as much value to client as possible. So we must understand the purpose of the report (such as to identify vulnerabilities and recommend fixes), and how we can present it so the audience can understand. 
	We should not confuse them with too much technical jargon. However some client may prefer these technical details. Industry-dependent details may also be provided such as certain security standard in that industry. Vulnerabilities may also carry different RISK in different industries. 

*Important to Tailor Content:* This means provide content for both Executives but also Technical Professionals. 

# Executive Summary

This is the **first part** of a pen test report. Outlines scope of engagement. This is needs to be determined in detailed prior to the engagement. Start with a High-level executive summary.

1. Timing issues and what exactly was tested
2. Include time frame of test (length of time testing, dates, and hours.)
3. Specify the methodology and reference the referee report.

Next the long-form executive summary. Not too many details because this section is for executives. Technical details can be obtained in later sections.

1. Describe the engagement in general. (details of when and what was done with what target)
2. Talk about some effective hardening/defenses or things client has done well to protect.
3. Talk about vulnerabilities found and how we found it. Can also relate to any related vulnerabilities.

Then we can talk about testing environment considerations in more details such as time allocated, or not given proper credentials early during the test. Can be positive, neutral or negative. 

# Technical Summary

We should talk about each security vulnerabilities in more technical detail in previous sections. We should **group** findings in to certain sections like: 

- User and Privilege Management
- Architecture
- Authorization
- Patch Management
- Integrity and Signatures
- Authentication
- Access Control
- Audit, Log Management and Monitoring
- Traffic and Data Encryption
- Security Misconfigurations

*Should* finish with a security heat map based on vulnerability severity of each section.

# Technical Findings and Recommendations

This is where we elaborate fully on the technical specifics of the vulnerabilities. Often provided in tabular form. Still, do not assume technical audience are all pen testers. Assume a less familiar background. Should be supported with screenshots and present implications and recommendations of each weakness. For e.g.,  

|Ref|Risk|Issue Description and Implications|Recommendations|
|---|---|---|---|
|1|H|Account, Password, and Privilege Management is inadequate. Account management is the process of provisioning new accounts and removing accounts that are no longer required. The following issues were identified by performing an analysis of 122,624 user accounts post-compromise: 722 user accounts were configured to never expire; 23,142 users had never logged in; 6 users were members of the domain administrator group; default initial passwords were in use for 968 accounts.|All accounts should have passwords that are enforced by a strict policy. All accounts with weak passwords should be forced to change them. All accounts should be set to expire automatically. Accounts no longer required should be removed.|
|2|H|Information enumerated through an anonymous SMB session. An anonymous SMB session connection was made, and the information gained was then used to gain unauthorized user access as detailed in Appendix E.9.|To prevent information gathering via anonymous SMB sessions: Access to TCP ports 139 and 445 should be restricted based on roles and requirements. Enumeration of SAM accounts should be disabled using the Local Security Policy > Local Policies > Security Options|
|3|M|Malicious JavaScript code can be run to silently carry out malicious activity. A form of this is reflected cross-site scripting (XSS), which occurs when a web application accepts user input with embedded active code and then outputs it into a webpage that is subsequently displayed to a user. This will cause attacker-injected code to be executed on the user's web browser. XSS attacks can be used to achieve outcomes such as unauthorized access and credential theft, which can in some cases result in reputational and financial damage as a result of bad publicity or fines. As shown in Appendix E.8, the [client] application is vulnerable to an XSS vulnerability because the username value is displayed on the screen login attempt fails. A proof-of-concept using a maliciously crafted username is provided in Appendix E.|Treat all user input as potentially tainted and perform proper sanitization through special character filtering. Adequately encode all user-controlled output when rendering to a page. Do not include the username in the error message of the application login.|

1. Describe what the vulnerability is.
2. Why it is dangerous.
3. Describe in some technical detail about them. (no overwhelming detail)
4. Include screenshots and step by step how we exploited the vulnerability. Can be referenced in an appendix too. 
5. Remediation should be detailed and concise.
6. Don't be too broad with solutions, and present them as step by step distinctly. 

# Appendices

Would include things that were too long to describe in the previous sections. Could also have a Further Information section to include what was unnecessary but good to know. References section should be linked to parts which are not as relevant but can provide more insight. 



