# Debug Page Content with URL

Many web pages use [_routes_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_framework#URL_mapping) so it maps URL to section of code. Can clue us on the page's resources and content if we use developer tools (debugger). Inspector tool (dev) allows us to look at the public -facing code of that page.

# Inspecting HTTP Response Headers and Sitemaps

Using dev tools, Network tab allows us to inspect HTTP request and response, including their headers **(which may reveal vulnerabilities)**. Things like the `Server` header will reveal more about the software running on the web app. Headers starting with `X-` are depreciated. 

`URL/sitemaps.xml OR URL/robots.txt`
	This gives us more info due to the [_sitemaps_](https://www.sitemaps.org/) protocol which tells web crawlers where they can go and not go. Both of these files tell us more about the web apps landscape.

# Enumerating and Abusing APIs

Often API endpoints which take advantage of REST APIs (use http to access services) can be accessed through `URL/api_name/v1` or whatever version number. We can enumerate this using gobuster   where pattern is something like `{GOBUSTER}/v1\n{GOBUSTER}/v2`. This allows us to specific brute-force certain URL patterns. More details about specific paths can be read in API documentation.

*We could also use the normal [[8.2 Web Application Assessment Tools|gobuster command]]* to enumerate 1 by 1. 

## Using Curl

`curl -i http://192.168.50.16:5002/users/v1`
	To inspect the response 

*We can the further use gobuster to enumerate and curl to see the responses*

`curl -d '{"password":"lab","username":"offsec","email":"pwn@offsec.com","admin":"True"}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' http://192.168.50.16:5002/users/v1/register`
	-d to specify the JSON body of request and -H to specify whatever header we want.

## Using Burp

We can use curl with `--proxy 127.0.0.1:8080` and we can inspect the request in Burp. We can do the same thing as curl but edit using Repeater. Burp also has a `Target --> Sitemap` where it maps out the response it receives. 