**Exam**: 443 (https), Cryptography not in scope

Report writing during exam can follow template, show step by step (with screenshots)
Firewall and phishing also out of scope

**Will focus on Nmap** (Chapter 6: Information Gathering)

# Go thru template for [[Template - Name of the box.pdf|info gathering]]

- Use systematic steps
- Find the target, enumerate from outside exploit to inside, enumerate and exploit inside to get root
- *Don't go into rabbit holes* (stick to the plan) -> **Main reason** people fail!
- Keep notes for each exploit then you can just search your notes if you encounter the same service. (can copy paste the template and reuse that to take notes!)
- No stego, no morse? LOL. They want to test our **methodology**
- Replicate the whole process (from getting the box to report writing)

**Nmap Aggressive scan**: nmap -p- -sC -sV -A -v -T4 -sT $target -oA $file.txt 
*With the right command you can find all the open ports!* 

- -p- might be important because they might hide common ports in other port numbers
- -oA saves output of the scan in 3 different formats for us
- crypto-related attacks like rsa OUT OF SCOPE
- ssh -i \$rsafile hannah@$target -p 61000
		-i to log in with private key. Port number to specify because sometimes ssh is not on port 22! Must ==chmod 600== the id_rsa file due to some linux tricks???
- Should take screenshots of every step in every box and paste in template! Can also safe keys and other useful things
- Good 1 liners
	`nmap -sVC -p- -v -T4 -sT --open IP_ADDRESS -oN results`
    `sudo nmap -sU -p 1-1024 -v IP_ADDRESS -oA results_UDP`

# SearchSploit / Finding Pub Exploits

- Exam will always give exploit that we can find on the Internet.
- 