
**Focus:** Password Cracking
- Hydra, Hashcat, JohnTheRipper

<u>BlackBox Class Activity</u>
	lookup.thm but we were exhausted. NOT SQL injection because there is a **reaction** from the website, not some error shown.

1. nmap
2. gobuster
3. burp to see request and variables
4. hydra with diff pw and usernames 
	Used seclists and rockyou.txt. Can enter the web! But seem to have many rabbit holes

**Privilege Escalation**: 
*  [GTFObins](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/tcpdump/#sudo) to search for privilege escalation to do with capabilities
* linpeas and winpeas automated enumeration tools
* Look at envt vars by doing ```env
* **Read Tiberius guide!** Specific to OSCP!
* Kernel exploit is last resort
* Protection not really in scope (aa-status to check for App Armor status)
* SUID processes the most important!

1. Take advantage of open ports using netstat (so we know if can ssh or what accounts we have access to)
2. iptables or cat /etc/iptables to see firewall rules
3. Take advantage of find and -exec to execute commands while an SUID command is running
4. Capabilities and GTFO bins for specific exploits
	/usr/sbin/getcap -r / 2>/dev/null to search for binaries with capabilities
5. Enumerate crontab and insert one liners into jobs to get remote shell
6. Update /etc/passwd because can auth with pw in this file. Overrides /etc/shadow (normally has the pw hash labelled x in /etc/passwd)

*Useful Commands*:
- sudo -l
- find / -writable
- find / -perm -u+s
- crontab -l
- su root
- cat /var/log/syslog | grep \[commandName\]
- cat /usr/os-release
- ps -aux (all processes)
- ps u -C passwd (to find PID for passwd)
	- cat /proc/\[PRID]/status
- uname -r (to do with finding kernel version)
	- searchsploit "linux kernel Ubuntu 16 Local Privilege Escalation"   | grep  "4." | grep -v " < 4.4.0" | grep -v "4.8"
	  
	  Using searchsploit to find exploits to the kernel, while filtering out certain kernel versions to keep it clean.
	- Then copy exploit from /usr/share/exploitdb/exploits/linux/local/.....
	- Use scp to transfer exploit to target
	- Can also start a python http server so target can access the exploit/wtv file


