## Pen Testing Lifecycle

1. Defining Scope
	Defines which IP ranges, hosts, and applications should be test subjects.
2. Information Gathering
	Recons to retrieve details about target's organization's infrastructure, assets and personnel. **Passive** means retrieve info without direct interaction while **Active** means probing the infrastructure directly to collect more info.
3. Vulnerability Detection
4. Initial Foothold
5. Privilege Escalation
6. Lateral Movement
7. Reporting/Analysis
8. Lessons Learned/Remediation

**Passive Information Gathering**, as a looser definition, may include interacting with the target but only as a normal user, such as registering for an account. Goal is to obtain information on target to expand our [[3.2 Threat and Threat Actors|attack surface]]. 

# Whois Enumeration

```whois [domain_name] -h [ip_address of our Whois Server]```
	Whois is a TCP service, tool and database which can tell us more info about domain name such as name server and registrar. May also give info on who registered for the domain.

```whois [ip_address]```
	To perform a reverse lookup to gather more info about an ip address. Includes who is hosting the IP and domain names tied to the IP.

# Google Hacking / Dorking

Using cool search strings and operators to refine google search queries. These operators should be separated by spaces for e.g. ```site:exploit-db.com filetype:html```. We can also put a - in front of each operator like a NOT operator.

Other useful operators:
- ext:\[filetype] e.g. ```ext:pdf```
- intitle:\[string]

# Netcraft

Using the [_DNS search page_](https://searchdns.netcraft.com/) on Netcraft website, we can get a site report. It provides info related to technologies running on given website and finding hosts that share the same IP netblock (range of IPs).

# Open-Source Code

Online code repos like on Github and SourceForge can also contain information on the target. Github's search functions also has operators like owner:\[string] and path:\[path_in_repo]. 

# Shodan

Search engine that crawls devices connected to the internet like servers and router as well as IoT devices. Like the other search engines, this one also has operators like hostname:\[hostname] and port:\["portnumber"].

This can give info about the devices found like open ports, service versions of software running on the system and also any published vulnerabilities tied to that machine.

# Security Headers and SSL/TLS

 [_Security Headers_](https://securityheaders.com/) blurs the line between active/passive because will analyse HTTP response to domains. Depending on these headers, it will analyse what configurations on HTTP makes it less secure. Security by these configurations is called [_server hardening_](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-123/final).

# Qualys SSL Labs

Similar to Security Headers, [_Qualys SSL Labs_](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/) can identify versions of TLS running on the server and other known issues on it.