# Challenges in Cybersecurity

1. It involves malicious and intelligent actors
	Requires a different approach, discipline and mindset to deal with them. Need to consider perspective and motives to predict, judge and analyze what they might do. This also involves emotions like fear in threatening or fear of defenses.
2. Reasoning under Uncertainty
	As explained in [[2.2 How to Approach the Course]], we are not omniscient and can only have finite info to act upon. We must calculate and hedge our bets against probabilities (both defender and attacker).

# Mindsets

## Fixed vs Growth

Fixed mindset means people think they have a certain amount of skill and can't gain from trying to move. Growth mindset believes in flexibility and ability to adapt, to grow in capacity over time. Recovering from a mistake makes us better at doing so -> we constantly reevaluate and learn.
## Security Mindset

Constant questioning on how we can defend/attack a system (by [Bruce Schneider](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2008/03/the_security_mi_1.html)). We should ask this question every time we encounter a novel idea to help us identify recurring patterns. 

## Try Harder Mindset

1. If my attack or defense fails, it represents a truth about my current skills/processes/configurations/approach as much as it is a truth about the system.
2. If my attack or defense fails, this allows me to learn something new, change my approach, and do something differently.

*Essential to learn from mistakes and learn, and strengthen mental fortitude.* 

# Emulating Mindsets

We are able to put ourselves in the place of attackers to better defend and answer the following questions: 
- "How might an attacker gain access?"
- "What can they do with that access?"
- "What are the worst possible outcomes from an attack?"

