*Cybersecurity*'s as a term in the military. It describes the protection of access and info on the Internet and other digital networks. *InfoSec* is included within that, but examines the protection of physical info-storing assets such as servers or vaults

# Evolution of Attack/Defense

Cybersecurity involves multiple agents trying to achieve mutually exclusive outcomes. Defenders want to protect their assets and attackers want to gain control over the same assets. 

They grow because they are intelligent and continue to upgrade and learn which triggers the other agents to upgrade and so on. 

# Risks, Threats, Vulnerabilities, Exploits
(about some jargon in cyber)

**Risk**: Probability of events happening and their impact, 4 quadrants
- Low-p, Low-i
- Low-p, High-i
- High-p, Low-i
- High-p, High-i

	Risk should be used to examine the answer <u>how likely attacks happen</u>, and the <u>worst possible outcome if the attack occurs</u>.

**Threat**: Something that poses a risk to an asset. May not be human. A threat actor signifies agency and intelligence (can be a group or individual)

**Vulnerability**: Flaw (in the asset) that allows a threat to cause harm
*See [Apache Log4J](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/)* library vulnerability

**Exploit**: User actions which deliberately and maliciously interact with a program to achieve unintended consequences such as getting access and privelege that users are not supposed to have. (abuses vulnerabilities to do so)

**Attack Surface**: All points of contact on a system or network that could be vulnerable to exploitation.

**Attack Vector**: Specific vulnerability and exploitation combination that can further a threat actor's objectives.
	Defenders want to reduce their attack surface and attackers probe attack surfaces to locate attack vectors

# Threat Actor Classifications

Most threats that systems are vulnerable to are human, and cybercrime introduces anonymity and ability to execute attacks at a distance, with a lack of physical danger and monetary cost. (compared to physical crimes).

These threats may differ in a numerous number of ways such as resources, technical expertise, motivations and morals. Here are some high-level classifications.

- Individual Malicious Actors
	Anyone attempting to explore digital tactics unintended by devs such as authenticating to restricted servers. One example is [Paige Thompson](https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdwa/pr/former-seattle-tech-worker-convicted-wire-fraud-and-computer-intrusions) who stole data from Capital One through a vulnerable router. 

* Malicious Groups
	More dangerous than individuals. More **organized**, more **purposeful**. Individuals that make up these groups can also add their specialties, **varying their tactics**. Also able to **increase volume** of attacks.
	
	Through advancements in communication tools they are able to instantly coordinate attacks. [Lapsus$ group](https://www.avertium.com/resources/threat-reports/in-depth-look-at-lapsus) extorted several large companies!

*How do we defend against such varied attacks?*
We can just focus on security best practices like access control and network segmentation. Internal threat actors and anomaly detection is also key.

* Insider Threats
	Already has access to a priveleged system and can abuse them to attack it. May have insider info and can be ex or current employees. During COVID, ex vice-president of medical packaging company could change and delete data!
	
	[[3.4 Security Principles, Controls and Strategies| Principle of Least Privilege]] should be applied here! Auditing accounts should also be done.

* Nation States
	Most proficient, resourceful and well-financed of them all. [Lazarus](https://www.nccgroup.com/us/the-lazarus-group-north-korean-scourge-for-plus10-years/), a North Korean threat actor were responsible for Sony data theft and WannaCry ransomware.
	
	Proper MFA, monitoring, network segmentation and patching/updating Internet-facing resources would do well to mitigate them.

*Recent breaches and attack vectors were explained here*

