# Security Principles

- **Principles of Least Privilege:** Each part within a system should only be granted the lowest possible privilege to achieve its task. 
	Narrows attack surface. Applies to all entities (human and non-human)

- **Defense in Depth:** Aka swiss cheese model which aims to add many layers of defense to a system, such that if one is bypassed, attacker is stopped by other layers.
	**No full infiltration**. Leaning on too many providers/tools to strengthen a specific weakness leads to single point failure.

- **Zero-Trust**: Advocates for removing all implicit trust in networks to protect access to all resource by making use of Principle of Least Privilege.
	Often implemented with granular authorization processes for every resource request. 
	
	Encapsulates 5 key elements:
	1.  Just-in-time Access (JITA) - access validated just before granted
	2. Just Enough Access (JEA)  
	3. Tokenization (replacing sensitive data with meaningless tokens) and Encryption
	4. Dynamic Access Control Policies - ensures policy is fit for purpose
	5. Micro-segmentation - limits access to appropriate level of granularity

- **Open Security:** Security of a system should not depend on its secrecy (Kerckhoff's?)

# Security Strategies

1. 24/7 vigilance
2. Threat modeling
3. Tabletop discussions
4. Continuous training on tactics, processes, and procedures
5. Continuous automated patching
6. Continuous supply chain verification
7. Secure coding and design
8. Daily log reviews
9. Multiple layers of well-implemented [_Security Controls_](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/security_control)

*Controls* may be time consuming to use and maintain and may affect availability (e.g. if no fallback authorization) and profitability (if expensive).

# Security Models

Schema used to implement security controls in info systems. Don't specify controls but are theoretical frameworks. Can be implemented in different contexts.

* **Bell-LaPadula Model**: Used to enforce access control in system with multiple security levels. Focuses on confidentiality
	No read up, no write down.
- **Brewer and Nash Model:** Enforces controls to maintain confidentiality, aiming to minimize conflict of interest.
	Uses data segregation and dynamic access controls (deny access to data based on previously viewed data).
- **Biba Model:** Enforces access controls to protect integrity of information.
	No write up, no read down.
- **Clark Wilson Model:** Uses Triples to protect data integrity
	Triples consists of subject, program (or transaction), and object. Subjects need to access object via programs.
- Other general access controls: **Role Based Access Control (RBAC), Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC)**
	- RBAC: Uses IAM to grant permissions to roles
	- ABAC: Assigns attributes to users and objects, and rules use the attributes to determine which users can interact with what objects. 
# Shift-Left Security

<u>Aim</u>:
To consider security engineering from the start when you design a product, rather than after it has been created. Most apps don't have security built in, and use platform level security.

<u>Pros</u>:
- Better/Harder to bypass security
- More seamless user experience

<u>Cons</u>:
- Slower production times.

# Administrative Segmentation

To combat [[3.2 Threat and Threat Actors |Insider Threats]], we segment controls such that no single authority can bypass all controls. We can split controls directly or split access to administration such as by using  [_Shamir's Secret Sharing_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamir%27s_Secret_Sharing) (SSS).

**SSS**: A secret-sharing mechanism where only when a pool of authorized individuals come together, can access be allowed.

# Threat Modeling and Threat Intelligence

* *Threat Modeling*: Take inventory of assets, research threats to different industries and software, and evaluate attack patterns against our people, processes and systems.
	Important to consider how compromising a system in our network can affect the other systems.
- *Threat Intelligence:* Actionable info that an org has gathered via threat modelling about a valid threat to that org's success.
	 An exploit is not threat intel but may lead to it. It is actionable CONTEXTUALISED intel to that specific company.

# Table-Top Tactics

<u>Aim:</u> A cross-org meeting where all stakeholders in the company meet so all are aware of the [_Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures_](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/tactics_techniques_and_procedures) (TTPs) for handling various scenarios. 
	Can result in shorter response times, and raise cross team awareness! Part of [_Business Continuity Planning_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_continuity_planning) (BCP) which includes other measures like live drill responses to situations like ransomware. Should be routine to gather relevant intel and mitigate any future issues.

# Continuous Patching and Supply Chain Validation

<u>Continuous Automated Patching</u> 

1. Pull upstream source code and apply to lowest dev environment.
2. Test changes. If successful, move to production

	Can leverage cloud providers to spin up replica environments then delete after testing is done -> may lead to risks in supply chain compromise?

<u>Continuous Supply Chain Validation</u>: By both vendor and consumer. Aims to make sure people and system validate software and hardware received is as expected and hasn't been tampered. Vendor needs to make sure it is verifiable in the first place.
	Physical checks in addition to software checks. If software, can use deeper testing and inspection techniques to evaluate upstream data. Increasing testing duration may increase likelihood of detecting sleeper malware (inactive for some period before activating).
	
Can also use a [_software bill of materials_](https://www.cisa.gov/sbom) (SBOM) to track dependencies automatically . 

1. Identify software dependencies
2. Create SBOM with them
3. Package container and SBOM in crypto-verifiable way
4. Verify SBOM signature before loading into production

# Backups

*Definition*: Copy of data made at a certain point of time. Enables restoration of data if it has been deleted or corrupted. Allows for mitigation of data loss and ensure availability and integrity.

*Hot* files: Files being actively changed -> inherent risk to data loss because haven't been backed up.

Performing regular backups is important -> reduces difference between backup file and actual files -> mitigates data loss. There are **5 types** of backups.

1. **Full Backup**: Complete copy of data
	Simplest, easiest to recover but slow to copy large amounts of data. May also be expensive to retain many copies and many different versions

2. **Incremental Backup**: Copies files that have changed since last backup (which can be incremental or full)
	Reduces data to be copied and time to copy, as well as space to store copies. Recovery more complicated because most recent version reconstructed from multiple different backups.

3. **Differential Backup:** Copies files that have changed since last full backup. 
	Between incremental and full. Less complex than incremental but more complex than full in terms of recovery. Time and storage space less than full but more than incremental.  

4. **Hot Backup:** Taken from running, online system, can be periodic, scheduled or triggered by changes.

5. **Cold Backup**: Taken from system/service when offline, safer for data consistency but need system down time.

## Storage Methods

**Offline**: In external media and then need to physically manage the media. (logistical challenges).
	Protects from online threats but physical backups can be stolen. Can use escrow services - transport physical backups to third party to be securely stored. 
	- provides redundancy, separation and assurance to protect and recover data

**Online:** Store data on dedicated servers and restore quickly in event of data loss
	Susceptible to deletion or alteration online. Can be mitigated by creating read-only, protected backups that can resist deletion and modification

Even when we use MFA to secure these backups, still susceptible to unforeseen exploits or social engineering to delete backups before using ransomware for e.g. Encryption should also be used to store backups.

*We need to focus on Redundancy to enforce Defense in Depth.*

## 3-2-1 Rule

Keep **3** copies of data including original
Store copies on **2** different types of media
Keep **1** copy offsite

Enhances data availability and resilience.

# Encryption

Protects assets from adversaries more than any other type of control. Consider what data to encrypt or need to decrypt. TLS is ephemeral (temporary) encryption -> only server and client can decrypt info, then keys are discarded.

Here, decryption keys are never on disk and is commonly used when sending secrets or PII. 

**Other Considerations:** Consider who can decrypt data, backups encrypted with different keys, no reuse of keys

# Logging and Chaos testing

With consistent, detailed, easy to access logging -> can respond to problems faster -> incidents resolved faster.

Not just network info, but equipment like firewalls and routers can be logged.

- *Asset Register:* Allow companies to track devices (for stolen ones)
- Asset Inventory: Allows company to prepare equipment purchases and keep track of warranties.

## Chaos Engineering

Type of BCP and disaster recovery technique usually handled via automation. Can have many methods like getting pen tested then see if production system/team can handle it.

